OH,
AS WE GET THROUGH THE ROLL
CALL, HOPEFULLY THOSE THAT ARE
COMING IN TO JOIN US CAN DO AT
THAT TIME AND THEN ALSO ADD
THEMSELVES TO THE ROLL CALL.
SO WITH THAT, DENISE, DO YOU
MIND CALLING ON INDIVIDUALS?
I JUST WANT TO NOTE AS WELL
THAT WHEN YOU&apos;RE DOING THE ROLL
CALL, IF YOU CAN JUST STATE
YOUR NAME, WHETHER YOU&apos;RE
COMMISSIONER AND ALSO WHERE YOU
ARE COMING FROM IN ANN ARBOR
TODAY.
I ALSO JUST WANT TO REMIND
EVERYONE THAT IF YOU ARE NOT
SPEAKING DURING THE MEETING TO
PLEASE MUTE YOUR MICROPHONE SO
THAT EVERYONE CAN BE HEARD
EFFECTIVELY ALSO JUST WANT TO
NOTE THAT THIS MEETING CAN BE
VIEWED ON THE COMMUNITY
TELEVISION NETWORK AND THEY CAN
WATCH ONLINE TO DOGS COTTON AND
IF ANYONE WATCHING WOULD LIKE
TO HAVE PUBLIC COMMENT, THEY
CAN CALL TOLL FREE AT EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE FOUR SEVEN OR EIGHT EIGHT
EIGHT SEVEN EIGHT EIGHT ZERO
ZERO NINE NINE.
ALL RIGHT WITH THAT DENISE, IF
YOU DON&apos;T MIND CALLING ON
INDIVIDUALS FOR THE ROLL CALL,
PLEASE.
NO PROBLEM, COMMISSIONER.
PASTOR ANDERSON, COMMISSIONER
HOPKINS, I SEE YOU PRESENT AT
DAMON.
YES.
HI, THIS IS ZACH DAMON.
I&apos;M THE CHAIRMAN AND I&apos;M COMING
FROM WASHTENAW COUNTY IN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN TODAY.
&gt;&gt; OK, I&apos;LL GO BACK TO
COMMISSIONER.
I AM RACHEL HAWKINS COMING TO
YOU FROM ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN AS
WELL.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
SOLOMON MATTHEW SOLOMON,
COMMISSIONER ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
COMMISSIONER MOSAD YES.
COMMISSIONER KATHLEEN WASN&apos;T
CALLING IN FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
VICE CHAIR KEILLER SEE YOU.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, HE MUST STILL BE ON OK
,I&apos;M ASKING YOU TO UNMUTED
OK
,I WILL COME BACK.
COMMISSIONER, GET OUT OF HERE.
OH, OK.
WELL I HAD TO CALL I HAD TO
CALL BACK COMMISSIONER FUELER
WEST SIDE OF HANABI THANK YOU
COMMISSIONER GOSSAGE.
&gt;&gt; GOOD AFTERNOON ALEX GOSSAGE,
COMMISSIONER FROM ANN ARBOR
MICHIGAN.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER NELSON IS NOT
HERE IS ABSENT COMMISSIONER BUD
IS ABSENT AND COMMISSIONER ALAN
PIPKIN.
&gt;&gt; GOOD AFTERNOON EVERYONE.
COMMISSIONER CHRISTIANA ALAN
PIPKIN HERE CALLING IN FROM
YPSILANTI, MICHIGAN.
&gt;&gt; OK, WE HAVE A CALL ALL
RIGHT.
WONDERFUL.
GOOD AFTERNOON EVERYONE AND
THANK YOU AS ALWAYS.
FOR TAKING THE TIME.
&gt;&gt; SO NEXT WE HAVE THE APPROVAL
OF TODAY&apos;S AGENDA.
I WASN&apos;T SURE IF ANYBODY HAD
ANY ANYTHING TO SAY ABOUT THE
AGENDA.
IF THERE IS, PLEASE MENTION IT
AT THIS TIME.
IF NOT, I WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A
MOTION TO APPROVE THE AGENDA.
IS THERE A SECOND OR SECOND?
OK, LARRY.
SECONDS ALL IN FAVOR
OF APPROVING TODAY&apos;S AGENDA.
JUST PLEASE UNMUTED IF YOU CAN
AND SAY I I I I.
OK, WONDERFUL.
NEXT WE&apos;LL MOVE ON TO THE
APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES AND IN
TODAY&apos;S AGENDA WE HAVE TWO
MEETING NEEDS TO APPROVE AS THE
LAST MEETING I DON&apos;T THINK WE
WERE AT A FULL QUORUM SO WE&apos;VE
GOT A COUPLE OF THEM.
THEY ARE IN THERE FOR OUR
VIEWING ABILITY AND SO I DIDN&apos;T
KNOW IF THERE WAS ANY
COMMISSIONERS THAT HAD ANY
OBJECTIONS TO THE SEPTEMBER AND
OR OCTOBER MINUTES.
BUT WHAT I&apos;D LIKE TO DO IF
POSSIBLE IS TO GET THE MOTION
TO APPROVE BOTH THE SEPTEMBER
AND OCTOBER MEETING MINUTES AND
GO FROM THERE.
SO DOES ANYONE WANT TO MAKE A
MOTION OR I CAN DO THAT I&apos;LL
MOVE TO APPROVE BOTH DAPENA OK,
I WILL SECOND THAT LARRY ALL IN
FAVOR OF APPROVING BOTH THE
SEPTEMBER AND OCTOBER MEETING
MINUTES FOR THE COMMISSION ON
DISABILITY ISSUES PLEASE ON
MUTE AND SAY I I&apos;M OK.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I DO APPRECIATE THAT.
ALL RIGHT.
NEXT ON THE AGENDA WE HAVE OUR
PUBLIC COMMENTS SECTION SO I
WASN&apos;T SURE DENISE, IF WE HAD
ANYBODY WHO HAD CALLED IN AT
THE SCHOOL TO DO ANY PUBLIC
COMMENT NO, I DON&apos;T HAVE ANYONE
PRESENTLY.
OK, THANK YOU.
SO WE CAN MOVE ON TO OUR
SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS PORTION
OF TODAY&apos;S MEETING.
SO FIRST AND FOREMOST I WOULD
LIKE TO GIVE A BIG THANK YOU
AND ALSO BIG COMMISSION ON
DISABILITY ISSUES.
WELCOME TO LAURA OR TO THE
DIRECTOR OF ORGANIZATIONAL
EQUITY WITH THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR AND I AM VERY, VERY
EXCITED TO HAVE YOU.
SO LAURA, WELCOME AND THANK YOU
FOR BEING HERE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
I&apos;M GLAD TO BE HERE.
THANKS FOR REACHING OUT.
ABSOLUTELY.
DO YOU MIND DO YOU HAVE
ANYTHING THAT YOU KIND
OF WANTED TO COMMUNICATE TO THE
COMMISSION THIS TIME?
I KNOW YOU&apos;RE KIND OF YOU KNOW,
NEW
TO THE ROLE IN TERMS OF THE
CITY AND GETTING ACCLIMATED
.
BUT PLEASE IF YOU DON&apos;T MIND
IT, JUST GIVE US MAYBE SOME
SOME GOALS THAT YOU HAVE IN
MIND THINGS THAT YOU&apos;RE LOOKING
FORWARD TO AND ANYTHING ELSE
YOU&apos;D LIKE TO MENTION.
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY.
AND I&apos;M TERRIBLE AT THIS SO
PLEASE FEEL FREE TO REACH OUT
TO ME AT ANY TIME.
I&apos;M TALKING ABOUT ME AS ONE
OF THE HARDEST THINGS FOR ME TO
DO SO I AM LAURA OR TO MY
PRONOUNS ARE THEY HIM?
AND HERE I GREW UP IN MICHIGAN
AND HAVE LIVED ALL AROUND THE
WORLD AND AM BACK IN MICHIGAN
SO EXCITED TO BE A PART OF THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
TO ME THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR IS
THE GOLD STANDARD CITY FROM
AROUND THE WORLD JUST HAVING
SEEN ALL OTHER POSSIBLE
EXAMPLES I I THINK AND I WAS
ONE OF THE GREATEST CITIES THAT
WE HAVE IN THE WORLD.
I AM RETIRED BECAUSE THERE WAS
NO ONE STRONG ROLLED INDIVIDUAL
DOING DIVERSITY, EQUITY,
INCLUSION, ACCESS AND
ACCESSIBILITY JUSTICE YOU KNOW
WHAT I CALL D.E.A PLUS BECAUSE
WE CONTINUE TO CHANGE THE
LANGUAGE AND GROW IT.
I COME FROM A TRAUMA INFORMED
PLACE IN MY I WORK I IDENTIFY
AS AN INDIVIDUAL WITH MULTIPLE
DIVERSE ABILITIES SO USING
ACADEMIC TERMINOLOGY THERE
RIGHT THAT I&apos;M HAPPY TO NOT USE
IT BUT IT IS SOMETHING THAT IS
NOT APPROPRIATE TO ALL OF YOU.
BUT THAT IS A MUCH MORE
ENCOMPASSING TERM OF NEURO
DIVERSE, PHYSICALLY DIVERSE ALL
THE OTHER TYPES OF WAYS THAT
OUR BODIES CAN PRESENT IN THIS
WORLD.
&gt;&gt; I AM CURRENTLY DOING AN
ASSESSMENT OF THE INTERIOR
OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
RIGHT.
IF OUR EMPLOYEES AND THE WAY
THAT WE DO THINGS WITHIN THE
SERVICE TO THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR IS NOT EQUITABLE AND IS
NOT AS UP TO DATE ON CURRENT
LANGUAGE PRACTICES AND ALWAYS
KEEPING THAT OPEN MIND SET TO
LEARN MORE THEN HOW CAN WE SAY
WE ARE BEST SERVING OUR PUBLIC
SO DOING THE WHOLE OVERVIEW
OF THE LOOKING FORWARD TO
ROLLING OUT PLANS AND STEPS AND
THINGS DO A LOT OF TRAINING.
&gt;&gt; I AM A FORMER PROFESSOR AT
MULTIPLE UNIVERSITIES AS WELL
AS ACCREDITATION ASSESSMENT
WORKER SO I&apos;VE DONE A LOT
OF HATS BECAUSE PROBABLY LIKE A
LOT OF YOU I HAD TO BE
ADAPTABLE IN SO THAT I COULD
AFFORD TO PAY MY RENT AND PUT
FOOD ON THE TABLE AND SO I&apos;VE
LEARNED A LOT OF REALLY
DIFFERENT SKILLS AND BRING THEM
ALL TOGETHER WITH CULTURAL
HUMILITY TO BE IN THIS ROLE.
I AM MULTIRACIAL ALTHOUGH I AM
VERY WHITE PRESENTING AND I&apos;M
VERY AWARE OF WHAT MY WHITE
PRESENTATION DOES FOR ME AND I
USE THAT TO MAKE CERTAIN I AM
MAKING SPACE FOR EVERYONE.
ANYTHING ELSE YOU&apos;D LIKE TO
KNOW?
WELL FIRST OF ALL THANK YOU SO
MUCH FOR THAT.
YEAH, I WAS JUST GOING TO OPEN
IT UP TO QUESTIONS AND SO IT
SEEMS LIKE THERE&apos;S SOME
HANDRAILS I SEE COMMISSIONER
SOLOMON WITH THE QUESTION SO
YEAH.
OR IF YOU DON&apos;T MIND ANSWERING
JUST A COUPLE OF QUESTIONS FROM
OUR COMMISSIONERS THAT WOULD BE
WONDERFUL.
&gt;&gt; DENISE, DO YOU MIND JUST
CALLING ON THOSE THAT HAVE
THEIR HANDS ABSOLUTE YOU?
I THINK THAT&apos;S ME.
LAURA NICE TO MEET YOU.
I HAVE A COUPLE OF QUESTIONS
LESS ABOUT YOU THAN ABOUT THE
POSITION AND WHAT IT ITS SCOPE
IS WE&apos;VE HAD CONTINUING
CONVERSATIONS WITH THE CITY
ABOUT AN ADA COORDINATOR, THE
NEED FOR THAT.
IT&apos;S UNCLEAR TO ME FROM YOUR
PRESENTATION YOU WHAT YOUR
PARAMETERS ARE, WHAT YOUR
CHARGES, WHAT YOUR SCOPE IS.
COULD YOU TALK TO US A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT THAT AND PARTICULARLY
I&apos;M THINKING I STILL BELIEVE
THERE&apos;S A NEED FOR AN AID
COORDINATOR AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; SO WHERE WOULD YOUR DUTIES
STOP AND LET&apos;S SAY ANOTHER
POSITION YET TO BE FILLED TAKE
UP AND THEN I HAVE ANOTHER
QUESTION BUT FIRST I&apos;D WANT TO
HEAR MORE ABOUT THE POSITION
ITSELF.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR THE ONE
QUESTION AT A TIME.
I APPRECIATE IT GREATLY.
SO AS DIRECTOR
OF ORGANIZATIONAL EQUITY, MY
SCOPE IS BOTH INTERNAL AND
EXTERNAL IN ANN ARBOR IT IS
MAKING CERTAIN THAT THE
INTERNALLY WE ARE APPROACHING
EVERYTHING WITH AN EQUITABLE
LENS AND BEING AS EQUITABLE AS
POSSIBLE.
IT IS ALSO EMBRACING THE
COMMUNITY AND WORKING WITH THEM
.
&gt;&gt; THE A.D.A ORDINATOR IS ONE
OF MY FIRST THINGS THAT I HOPE
TO GET DONE.
WE ARE IN THE PROCESS
OF PREPARING BUDGETS FOR THE
NEXT TWO YEARS AND THAT
POSITION SPECIFICALLY HAS
ALREADY BEEN DESIRED BY THE
CITY AND I&apos;M HOPING THAT IT
WILL COME TO FRUITION AND WE
WILL HAVE SOMEONE NO LATER THAN
EARLY FALL.
TWENTY THREE THAT SEEMS LIKE A
LONG TIME AND IT IS BUT THERE&apos;S
DEFINITELY A I&apos;VE GOT A BASED
JOB DESCRIPTION WRITTEN UP THAT
I WILL ABSOLUTELY ENCOURAGE ALL
OF YOU TO GIVE FEEDBACK ON AND
JUST KIND OF I HAVE NO REAL
PARAMETERS OUTSIDE OF I WORK
FOR THE CITY AND SO THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR IS WHERE A LOT
OF MY FOCUS IS.
BUT I ALSO KNOW HOW CLOSELY
WASHTENAW COUNTY TIES YPSILANTI
AND CYO TOWNSHIP AND ALL THOSE
OTHER AREAS IN WITH WHAT
HAPPENED.
SO IT&apos;S NOT AS IF I STOP AT A
BORDER I I&apos;M WORKING WITH
TALKING WITH MY COUNTERPARTS IN
THE COUNTY OF WASHTENAW COUNTY
ITSELF AND THE JOB DESCRIPTION
WAS LEFT VERY BASIC BECAUSE
THEY STILL THEY BEING THE CITY
AREN&apos;T SURE OF HOW MUCH THEY
NEED WHERE THEY NEED WHAT&apos;S
NEEDED AND THAT&apos;S WHY I&apos;M DOING
THE ANALYSIS OF THE WHOLE
INSTITUTION AND I JUST I TRY
NOT TO PUT ORDERS OR PARAMETERS
AROUND THE WORK BECAUSE IN THIS
FIELD IT CHANGES SO GREATLY
THAT CITY HAD DONE A LIVING
WAGE UPDATE BEFORE I GOT THERE
AND THAT IMPACTS SO MANY OTHER
AREAS OF AN INDIVIDUAL&apos;S
IDENTITY.
I I HOPE I&apos;M NOT ANSWERING THIS
IN SOME POLITICAL WAY AND YOU
UNDERSTAND THAT IT&apos;S REALLY
JUST MORE COME SHAPE THIS UP
AND THAT&apos;S ONE OF THE SKILLS
THAT I HAVE.
I HAVE HAD MORE THAN FIFTEEN
JOBS WHERE I&apos;VE BEEN THE FIRST
PERSON TO FILL A ROLE IN REALLY
SAY THIS IS WHAT&apos;S NEEDED AND
HERE&apos;S WHAT NEEDS TO GO.
BUT ABSOLUTELY AN EIGHT
COORDINATOR I BELIEVE I CAN
REALLY TELL YOU THAT IT IS A
HIGH PRIORITY NOT JUST FOR ME
AND MY UPCOMING BUDGET BUT IT
WAS ALSO ONE OF THE FIRST
THINGS THAT I WAS TOLD YES,
THIS IS SOMETHING MORE
INTENTIONAL ABOUT ME.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT OPEN JOB DESCRIPTION
I FIND VERY ENCOURAGING.
SO AND AGAIN I HOPE THAT WE
WILL HAVE A CLOSE WORKING
RELATIONSHIP THE COMMISSION AND
YOU AND THAT WILL BE IN VERY
FREQUENT CONTACT BECAUSE I
THINK THAT&apos;S IMPORTANT FROM OUR
POINT OF VIEW TO FEEL THAT OUR
VOICE CONNECTS TO WHAT&apos;S GOING
ON IN THE CITY AND WE&apos;VE BEEN
LOOKING FOR A SUITABLE LIAISON
FOR FOUR YEARS FRANKLY, THE
THING THAT I WOULD JUST THAT&apos;S
A QUESTION MORE OF A COMMENT IS
THIS CITY TAKES SO MUCH PRIDE
IN BEING A BIKE FRIENDLY CITY
AND THAT IS SUCH AN ACTIVIST
MODE OF TRANSPORTATION.
AND EVERY TIME I PASS THROUGH
THE CITY I&apos;M REMINDED OF HOW
ABLEST THIS CITY WITH PRIDE IS
AND I FIND THAT TROUBLING AS A
PERSON WITH A DISABILITY I&apos;D
LIKE TO SEE A DIAL BACK.
I&apos;D LIKE TO SEE IT ADDRESSED
AND I SAY IT EVERY TIME
SOMEBODY FROM THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR IS IN THIS SPACE BUT I
CAN&apos;T GET FROM POINT A TO POINT
B BUT WITHOUT BEING REMINDED
OF HOW GREAT BICYCLING IS AND
THAT&apos;S JUST NOT AN INCLUSIVE
MODE OF TRANSPORTATION
NECESSARILY SOMETHING LIKE ANN
ARBOR CERTAINLY IS STEEPED IN A
LOT OF PRIVILEGE AND TALKING
ABOUT IT AND WORKING ON HOW TO
BREAK DOWN THAT PRIVILEGE AND
BE MORE INCLUSIVE IS YOU.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I HOPE
TO DO AND I AGREE 100 PERCENT A
LITTLE PERSONAL MY MOTHER HAD A
NEUROLOGICAL DISEASE THAT
EVENTUALLY KILLED HER AND WAS A
WHEELCHAIR USER MOST OF MY LIFE
AND SO I UNDERS DAN THE
PERSPECTIVE OF THE ABLEST YAY
LET&apos;S ALL GO BIKING AND LET&apos;S
SPRAY PAINTED ON THE GROUND AND
AND HOW IMPACTFUL THAT IS AND
HOW HARD IT IS TO GET AROUND IN
ARBER AND SHOP IF YOU ARE
DIVERSELY ABLE PHYSICALLY OR IN
OTHER WAYS IT&apos;S NOT A CITY
THAT
WAS LAID OUT FOR THAT.
THANK YOU MR. GARBAGE.
HI THIS IS ALEX.
GLAD YOU ARE ABLE TO JOIN US
TODAY.
I JUST HAVE A REAL SIMPLE
QUESTION WHICH IS REALIZE THAT
YOU&apos;RE INCREDIBLY NEW TO YOUR
POSITION BUT WHAT IS THE BEST
WAY FOR US TO US OR ANYBODY TO
REACH OUT TO YOU AT THIS POINT
TO CONNECT?
&gt;&gt; I WOULD SAY MY EMAIL WHICH
IS LAURITA AT A TWO GOV DOUG OK
AND YES SHOOT ME EMAILS I AM SO
I&apos;M A 48 HOUR TURNAROUND OR TRY
TO BE UNLESS I&apos;M OUT OF THE
OFFICE WHICH CAN GET A MESSAGE
IF I WAS AND I EVEN JUST JUST
TO SAY HEY I GOT YOUR EMAIL AND
IT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT I&apos;M ADDING
TO MY LIST AND YOU KNOW
COMMISSIONER SOLOMON, I&apos;D LOVE
TO HEAR YOUR SUGGESTIONS OR THE
SCHOOL COMMITTEE SUGGESTIONS ON
WAYS THAT WE CAN CHANGE THIS
NARRATIVE TO BE MORE INCLUSIVE
IN THE COMMUNITY.
I AM LOOKING FORWARD TO BEING
THE VOICE IN THE CITY TO HELP
MAKE CHANGES.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
THAT WAS MY ONLY QUESTION.
WONDERFUL.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
AND YOU KNOW, SORT OF THANK YOU
JUST FOR AGAIN YOUR OPENNESS,
YOUR WILLINGNESS TO INCLUDE THE
ANN ARBOR COMMISSION ON
DISABILITY ISSUES NOT ONLY WITH
THE FORMATION OF THE CITY ADA
COORDINATOR POSITION BUT ALSO
IN OTHER MATTERS OF DIVERSITY,
EQUITY AND INCLUSION.
AND LIKE OTHER COMMISSIONERS
HAVE STATED, WE DEFINITELY LOOK
FORWARD TO BEING A VERY SOLID
PARTNER WITH YOU GOING FORWARD
AND TO LET YOU KNOW NO NO
JUDGMENT IT&apos;S MIXED SO OH I&apos;M
SO SORRY ABOUT THAT.
THAT&apos;S OK.
IT IT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT YOU KNOW
THE MORE THAT WE TALK ABOUT IN
PRACTICE THE MORE INCLUSIVE WE
ALL GET.
SO NO NO NEED TO APOLOGIZE.
&gt;&gt; I I WILL DEFINITELY KEEP
THAT IN MIND GOING FORWARD.
ALL RIGHT.
WITH THAT IS THERE DOES ANYBODY
HAVE ANY MORE QUESTIONS FOR
LAURA GOING FORWARD OR CAN WE
MOVE ON TO THE OTHER
PRESENTATIONS?
&gt;&gt; OH, RIGHT.
WELL, I&apos;D LIKE TO MOVE ON TO
THE OTHER PRESENTERS.
I&apos;D LIKE TO MOVE ON TO THE
WASHTENAW LIBRARY FOR THE BLIND
AND PHYSICALLY DISABLED WITH
THE ALWAYS INFORMATIVE KADIM ON
KABBAGE EVERYBODY, GOOD TO SEE
YOU ALL TODAY.
I JUST HAVE A COUPLE OF THINGS
GOING ON IN THE LIBRARY TO LET
YOU KNOW ABOUT.
WE HAVE SOME EVENTS COMING UP
HERE.
BUT FIRST I WANT TO TELL YOU
ABOUT IS AN AUTHOR EVENT WITH
KEN MCGEE.
HE WROTE THE ULTIMATE MICHIGAN
FOOTBALL PROGRAM AND TICKET
GUIDE THIS THIS EVENT ON
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER EIGHT FROM SIX
TO SEVEN THIRTY PM AT THE
MALLETS CREEK BRANCH.
LOCAL HISTORIAN AND COLLECTOR
OF MICHIGAN MEMORABILIA KEN
AGUY IS GOING TO PRESENT HIS
COFFEE TABLE BOOK.
IT&apos;S COAUTHOR BRIAN SNYDER AND
THIS GUIDE CONTAINS OVER TWENTY
FIVE HUNDRED COLOR PHOTOGRAPHS
OF EVERY UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
FOOTBALL GAME DAY PROGRAM AND
TICKET STUB KNOWN TO EXIST GAME
SUMMARIES OF EVERY MICHIGAN
FOOTBALL GAME SINCE THE FIRST
GAME IN 1879 AND AN
INTRODUCTORY LETTER WRITTEN BY
FORMER PRESIDENT GERALD FORD.
THIS PRESENTATION WILL FEATURE
NUMEROUS IMAGES THAT ILLUSTRATE
THE WAY FOOTBALL HAS BEEN
INTERTWINED WITH AMERICAN
HISTORY OVER THE LAST CENTURY
INCLUDING THE WORLD WARS
LINDBERGH FLIGHT, JFK
ASSASSINATION AND 911 CAN ALSO
TELL THE STORY OF THE 30 PLUS
YEARS IT TOOK TO COMPLETE THIS
ONE OF THE COLLECTION REVIEWS
HAVE DESCRIBED THIS BOOK AS A
SPORTS MASTERPIECE AND ONE
OF THE MOST UNIQUE BOOKS
WRITTEN IN THE HISTORY OF ALL
SPORTS BOOKS.
SO THAT INCLUDES A SIGNING WITH
BOOKS AVAILABLE FOR SALE.
OUR NEXT EVENT WILL BE ON ADULT
TV.
IT&apos;S IN DIGITAL BOOK CLUB.
THIS IS AN ADULT STAFF
DISCUSSION OF THE NIGHT
WATCHMAN BY LOUISE ERDRICH.
THIS IS ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER
TWENTY FROM SEVEN FROM SIX TO
SEVEN THIRTY PM THIS IS A
DISCUSSION SERIES.
IT CELEBRATES NATIVE AMERICAN
AUTHORS AND BOOKS ACROSS GENRES
TIME AND ACROSS CONTINENTS.
&gt;&gt; THIS MONTH WE&apos;LL BE JOINING
ADL STAFF FOR A DISCUSSION
OF THE NIGHT WATCHMAN BY LOUISE
ERDRICH.
THE DISCUSSION IS FACILITATED
BY ARIEL OJIBWAY.
ARIEL LOVES TO BE A PART
OF SHARING YOUR STORIES AND IT
MAKES HER HOPEFUL THAT THE
TELLING OF THE STORIES
OF STOLEN LAND, STOLEN PEOPLE
AND STOLEN HISTORIES IS LOUDER
NOW THAN WHEN SHE WAS YOUNG.
SHE BELIEVES STORIES CAN LEAD
OUR WORLD BACK TO THE RIGHT
PLACE RIGHT PAST.
ARIEL IS A MEMBER OF THE U.S.
MARINE BAND OF CHIPPEWA
INDIANS.
&gt;&gt; WE ALSO HAVE A CONCERT
COMING UP.
THIS IS THE MUSIC NOIR IN
PERFORMANCE.
IT WILL BE SUNDAY, DECEMBER 11
FROM ONE TO TWO P.M. AT THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY IN OUR LOBBY
JOIN MUSIC NOIR, THE AWARD
WINNING MOTOR CITY STRING
QUARTET FOR A LIVE CONCERT
OF THEIR UNIQUE WORLD FUSION
ARRANGED EVENTS INCORPORATING
ELEMENTS OF SPAIN, AFRICA,
INDIA AND THE MIDDLE EAST AS
WELL AS JAZZ, BLUES AND FUNK
MUSIC NOIR IS LED BY VIOLINIST
AND FLUTIST MICHELLE MAY, A TWO
THOUSAND EIGHTEEN DETROIT
KRUPSKI ARTIST FELLOW THE
MEMBERS OF MUSIC NORA ARE
VETERAN PLAYERS NATIONALLY AND
INTERNATIONALLY HAVING
PERFORMED WITH HIGH PROFILE
ARTISTS SUCH AS STEVIE WONDER,
KATY, ARETHA FRANKLIN, HELDA
BAGE AND FRANK MCCOMBE AMONG
MANY OTHERS JUST A REMINDER
ABOUT MATERIALS WASHTENAW A
LIBRARY FOR THE BLIND AND
DISABLED PATRONS CAN ORDER A
DIGITAL CARTRIDGE AND OTHER
MATERIALS BY CALLING SEVEN
THREE FOUR THREE TWO SEVEN FOUR
TWO TWO FOUR OR EMAIL US AT BPD
ADL DOT ORG ALWAYS FEEL FREE TO
SIGN UP FOR THE BRAILLE AN
AUDIO READING SERVICE BARD ON
YOUR OWN AT ANNELLS BARD ELLO
SEAGOVILLE OR GIVE US A CALL
AND WE CAN HELP YOU WITH THE
APPLICATION OVER THE PHONE.
THERE ARE SOME BOOKS BUT I&apos;M
GOING TO TALK ABOUT THAT YOU
CAN FIND ON BARD THE ONE I WAS
TALKING ABOUT EARLIER THAT WILL
BE DISCUSSING THE NIGHT
WATCHMAN BY LOUISE ERDRICH
NINETEEN FIFTY THREE CHIPPEWA
COUNCIL MEMBER THOMAS WAS HASH
TRIES TO BALANCE THE DEMANDS
OF HIS JOB AS A NIGHT WATCHMAN
AT THE NEW JEWEL BEARING PLANT
OUTSIDE THE TURTLE MOUNTAIN
RESERVATION AND MONITORING THE
CONSEQUENCES OF THE BILL
PURPORTING EMANCIPATION FOR
NATIVE AMERICAN TRIBES WINDING
ITS WAY THROUGH CONGRESS ALSO
HAVE THE MAYO CLINIC ON
OSTEOPOROSIS KEEP YOUR BONES
STRONG AND REDUCE YOUR RISK
OF FRACTURES BY AN KERNES NO
MATTER YOUR AGE OR BONE HEALTH
YOU CAN TAKE STEPS TO PREVENT
FUTURE BREAKS.
THE BEST TIME TO START IS NOW
IN THIS BOOK YOU&apos;LL FIND CLEAR
PRACTICAL INFORMATION ON
FACTORS THAT AFFECT YOUR RISK
OF OSTEOPOROSIS BONE DENSITY
TESTS TO DETECT WEAK BONES
BEFORE A BREAK.
TREATMENTS TO HELP STOP BONE
LOSS AND ENCOURAGE NEW BONE
GROWTH THE BEST FOOD AND
NUTRIENTS FOR STRONG BONES WAYS
TO REDUCE YOUR RISK
OF FRACTURES AND FALLS.
EXERCISE OR BUILDING BONE AND
SOME TO AVOID WITH LOW BONE
MASS AND MORE.
AND FINALLY THE HANDBOOK FOR
BAD DAYS SHORTCUTS TO GET
PRESENT WHEN THINGS AREN&apos;T
PERFECT BY ABBERLINE MAKE KEEP
YOUR HEAD HELD HIGH EVEN THE
BAD DAYS WITH SEVENTY MINDFUL
SELF CARE STRATEGIES TO FIND
HAPPINESS.
THE HANDBOOK FOR BAD DAYS IS
THE ULTIMATE GUIDE FOR ANYONE
WHO STRIVES TO BE PRESENT NOT
PERFECT.
THE HANDBOOK FOR BAD DAYS IS A
CALL TO FACE OUR WORST DAYS
WITH COURAGE AND INTENTIONALITY
AND THAT IS ALL I HAVE FOR YOU
ALL TODAY.
&gt;&gt; DOES ANYBODY HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS?
&gt;&gt; YES, BUT TWO KILLERS HAND IS
RAISED.
&gt;&gt; HEY LARRY.
YEAH.
TO YEAH WE SAID THAT YOU DID
SAY THAT THE SPORTS THING THE
REVIEW OF THE BOOK IN THE BOOK
SALE WAS ON NOVEMBER 8TH.
&gt;&gt; DID YOU MEAN THE 18TH?
I DID.
I&apos;M AT THE 18TH OK I JUST
WANTED TO CLARIFY THAT BECAUSE
HE SAID DECEMBER LIKE WE WERE
TRYING TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT
EVENTS I&apos;M SORRY THAT I SAID
GUESS I THINK I&apos;VE READ A FAIR
AMOUNT OF NATIVE AMERICAN AND I
THINK THIS IS THE LAST LIMERICK
BERDYCH, THANK YOU.
I WAS ACTUALLY YES.
LIKE RIGHT BEFORE I STARTED
TALKING I USUALLY CHECK SO I
APPRECIATE THE CORRECTION OVER
THE BOOK SOUND INTERESTING.
&gt;&gt; SO THANK YOU.
YOU&apos;RE WELCOME.
THANKS LARRY.
ALL DOES ANYBODY ELSE HAVE ANY
OTHER QUESTIONS FOR CANDY AT
THIS TIME?
ALL RIGHT.
IF NOT KATIE AS USUAL AMAZING
THINGS ALL SOUNDS WONDERFUL AND
AGAIN FEEL FREE FOR ALL OF YOU
VIEWING THIS MEETING TO VISIT
THE WASHTENAW LIBRARY FOR THE
BLIND AND PHYSICALLY DISABLED.
&gt;&gt; AND THANK YOU VERY MUCH,
KATIE.
YOU&apos;RE VERY WELCOME.
&gt;&gt; THANKS AS ALWAYS FOR HAVING
ME.
I TAKE CARE.
BYE.
ALL RIGHT.
NEXT ON OUR PRESENTATIONS WE
HAVE THE ANN ARBOR CENTER FOR
INDEPENDENT LIVING AND MISS
JOYCE BLAIR, THIS IS JOYCE.
GOOD EVENING, EVERYONE.
I WOULD LIKE TO ANNOUNCE THAT
ALL THE EVENTS THAT I&apos;M GOING
TO TELL YOU ABOUT ARE AVAILABLE
ON OUR CALENDAR AT THE END OUR
VERSATILE WEBSITE AND THAT IS
ANN ARBOR SII OMG THE PHONE
NUMBER IS SEVEN THREE FOUR NINE
SEVEN ONE ZERO TWO SEVEN SEVEN.
FIRST I LIKE TO ANNOUNCE THAT
TOMORROW THERE IS A COMMUNITY
APPRECIATION LUNCHEON.
THERE ARE STILL A FEW OPENINGS
AND IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN
ATTENDING YOU CAN CALL THE
NUMBER FOR THE CENTER.
THERE&apos;S A COUPLE WALKING SLOTS
AVAILABLE OUR SPIRIT CLUB WHICH
IS A FITNESS UNADAPTABLE
FITNESS CLASS ON MONDAYS AND
WEDNESDAYS FOUR O&apos;CLOCK PM AND
IT&apos;S ADAPTABLE FITNESS SO THE
THEY MEET PEOPLE WHERE THEY
ARE.
IT&apos;S A FUN ONLINE VIRTUAL
EXERCISE CLASS TOMORROW THERE
IS THAT CLASS WILL TAKE PLACE
FROM FOUR TO FIVE O&apos;CLOCK PM
AND THERE&apos;S ALSO ON FRIDAY
THERE IS AN OREO COOKIE CLUB
THAT&apos;S ORGANIZED RECREATIONAL
EATING FOR PEOPLE TO MAKE
COMMUNITY CONNECTIONS.
NEXT WEEK THE CIA WILL BE
CLOSED ON THANKSGIVING AND THE
DAY AFTER OR I&apos;M SORRY TO FALL
HARVEST FESTIVAL AND THE DAY
AFTER.
SO ON MONDAY I ELEVEN TWENTY
ONE THERE WILL BE A FITNESS
CLUB JUST TO PLEASE
MONDAY
THERE WILL BE A FITNESS CLUB
AND THERE WILL ALSO BE ART.
SO THERE&apos;S IN-PERSON ART ON
MONDAY FROM ONE THIRTY TO THREE
THIRTY PM AND THAT IS IN PERSON
IN THE GET WHAT WE CALL THE ART
GALLERY AT THE SEATTLE
TESTERMAN
.
&gt;&gt; THE SEATTLE DOES HAVE A
CURRENT COLLECTIONS PARENTS
SUPPORT GROUP FOR PARENTS THAT
ARE DISABILITY, THAT HAVE
DISABILITIES AND ARE PARENTING
KIDS AND THAT IS A REALLY
WONDERFUL GROUP ON TUESDAYS WE
HAVE TRIVIA TO TRIVIA TUESDAYS
OR WE TALK ABOUT TRIVIA FROM
ONE THIRTY TO TWO THIRTY PM AND
AGAIN ON TUESDAY THERE IS A
TRIVIA TUESDAYS PLUS THE ART
CLASS PLUS CONNECTIONS AND THEN
ON FRIDAYS THERE&apos;S A VIRTUAL
MOVIE CLUB FROM FOUR O&apos;CLOCK TO
FIVE O&apos;CLOCK PM AND AGAIN FOR
ALL OF THESE ACTIVITIES PLEASE
CONTACT THE CENTER.
DOES ANYBODY HAVE ANY QUESTIONS
FOR ME.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
WONDERFUL THINGS.
THANK YOU SO MUCH JOYCE.
AND TO EVERYONE AT THE ANN
ARBOR CENTER FOR INDEPENDENT
LIVING FOR ALL THE GREAT THINGS
THAT YOU&apos;RE OFFERING AND YES I
DO HOPE EVERYONE CAN HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO VISIT THE CENTER
AND ONE OF THEIR WONDERFUL
ACTIVITIES THAT THEY OFFER.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
ALL RIGHT.
NEXT WE HAVE THE PARTNERS AND
ACCESS COMMITTEE COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT REPORT THAT&apos;S WITH
ALEX GOSSAGE AND RACHEL
HAWKINS, A RACHEL I&apos;LL BE REAL
QUICK IF YOU WANT TO IF YOU&apos;RE
OK WITH ME, GO IN FIRST TERM
OK?
JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE SO LARRY
AND I DID MEET JUST A WEEK AGO
FULL TIME JUST DOES NOT FEEL
LIKE IT HAS ANY MEANING
ANYMORE.
I CAN NEVER TELL HOW LONG
ANYTHING IS AWAY BUT WE MET
ABOUT A WEEK AGO IN MY OTHER
ROLE AS PART OF THE STILL THERE
WAS A CONCERN RAISED WITH SOME
CURB CUTS THAT WERE RECENTLY
INSTALLED AND I WILL BE TALKING
ABOUT THAT MORE IN IN THE NEW
BUSINESS.
BUT THAT WAS KIND OF THE MAIN
DISCUSSION THAT LARRY AND I HAD
REGARDING THAT AND WHAT
POSSIBLE REMEDIES THERE MIGHT
BE AT LEAST AS FAR AS THE
COMMISSION GOES.
BUT I CAN TALK MORE ABOUT THAT
IN IN THE NEW BUSINESS.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, ALEX.
I DO APPRECIATE THAT.
AND YES, WE&apos;LL TALK ABOUT THAT
OTHER ITEM AS WELL.
RIGHT.
AND THEN HOW ABOUT COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT, RACHAEL?
&gt;&gt; SO I DON&apos;T HAVE ANYTHING
FURTHER TO ADD.
I DIDN&apos;T GET AN UPDATE EMAIL
FROM THEM THIS WEEK.
THEY USUALLY SEND IT A DAY OR
TWO BEFORE FOR ANOTHER
OCCLUSIVE SO I DON&apos;T HAVE AN
UPDATE FROM THEM ON WHAT THEIR
SHOWS ARE THAT THEY&apos;RE PLANNING
COMING UP.
&gt;&gt; BUT I WILL EMAIL THAT TO YOU
ONCE I HAVE THAT CONFIRMED.
&gt;&gt; HEY, NO PROBLEM.
THANK YOU, RACHEL.
I DO APPRECIATE ALL OF YOUR
EFFORTS WITH COMMUNITY AND OUR
WE&apos;RE INCLUSIVE SO BEST TO THE
COMMUNITY TELEVISION NETWORK
AND TOM HOUGHTALING, LINDA
EVANS AND ALL INVOLVED WITH
THAT THERE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
SURE.
MOVING ON, WE HAVE RECRUITING
ACTIVITY, MR. LARRY KEILLER.
&gt;&gt; I HAVE HEARD NOTHING SINCE
LAST MONTH.
I&apos;VE HAD I&apos;VE HAD A BUSY MONTH
BUT I STILL HAVEN&apos;T HEARD
ANYTHING AND THE LAST THING WE
HAD MR. PORTUGAL ON LAST MONTH
AND I HAVEN&apos;T HEARD WHETHER
HE&apos;S GOING TO BE INTERESTED OR
WHAT&apos;S GOING ON THERE BUT I DID
DENISE, YOU COULD SEND ME SOME
MORE APPLICATIONS IF YOU HAVE
THEM AND WE ARE ALWAYS OPEN YOU
CAN SIGN YOUR FORMS THAT IS IT
A TWO DOT GOV COMMISSIONS AND
BOARDS?
I THINK THERE&apos;S A FORM FOR
SIGNING UP FOR COMMISSIONS
THERE AND I&apos;D LIKE TO SEE SOME
APPLICATIONS COME IN SO I CAN
START CALLING AROUND.
THANK YOU.
SURE THING.
AND DON&apos;T GO VERY FAR LARRY
BECAUSE NEXT UP WE HAVE YOU
THAT&apos;S RIGHT.
WE HAVE THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION UPDATE WITH LARRY.
&gt;&gt; OH I DON&apos;T HAVE MUCH OF THE
THINGS IN THERE IN THERE TOO.
BUT THEY WERE THERE WAS A
DEBATE OVER THE 7TH STREET IN
GREENWOOD PROJECT WHETHER TO
AMEND THE PROJECT OR NOT
BECAUSE THERE ARE SOME SOME
ISSUES IS WIDENING THE BIKE
LANES IN THE STREET DOWN THERE
OR WHETHER THEY SHOULD DO THAT
AND THEY HAD MEASUREMENTS THAT
THEY WANTED TO TAKE CARE OF .
IT WAS APPROVED BUT IT WASN&apos;T
RESCINDED AND THEN THEY HAD A
GUY WHO WAS EXPLAINING WHAT
WHAT WAS ALL ABOUT THE
TRANSPORTATION FUNDING AND HOW
HOW THE FEDERAL FUNDING GETS IN
COLLABORATION WITH THE CITY
FUNDING AROUND HERE AND THEN IT
WAS GIVEN TO FUNDING IS GIVEN
TO THE TRANSPORTATION CENTERS
TO DISTRIBUTE TO DISTRIBUTE
AMONG THE VARIOUS AREAS THAT
AREA THAT NEED THE FUNDING AND
IT WENT INTO A LOT OF BUDGETING
AND FUNDING AND HOW HOW IT ALL
WORKS AND HOW AND AND THEY SAY
THEY JUST GET THE PROJECTS OUT
THE DOOR.
WE DO THE THE COMMUNITY TO THE
REST OF THEM AND THEN THERE&apos;S
THERE&apos;S JUST A COUPLE UPDATES
ABOUT NARROWING HILL STREET
DRIVING AND NARROWING DRIVING
LANES AND WIDENING BIKE PATHS
AND THEY WANT TO INSTALL
BUFFERS ALL OVER THE PLACE ALSO
THEY ALSO WANT TO REDUCE
PARKING IN IN A LOT OF THE
AREAS AND BASICALLY THE SAME
THING THEY&apos;RE DOING FOR THE
LAST FEW MONTHS.
ALL RIGHT.
THAT&apos;S IT.
&gt;&gt; WELL, THANK YOU VERY MUCH,
LARRY.
DEFINITELY APPRECIATE THAT
REPORT AND THANK YOU SO MUCH.
NEXT WE HAVE THE YOU HAVE M
COUNSEL FOR USABILITY CONCERNS
MEETING UPDATE.
HELLO EVERYONE.
SO WE DID MEET ON NOVEMBER 11.
&gt;&gt; ARE YOU ABLE TO HEAR ME?
YES.
AND SO THE MEETING ITSELF WAS A
VERY SHORT MEETING.
USUALLY WE HAVE SPEAKERS LINED
UP FOR SOME REASON IN NOVEMBER
WE DID NOT SO WE HAD SOME
INTERESTING DISCUSSIONS.
THE FIRST THING WAS WE HAD A
DEBRIEF OF OUR OCTOBER EVENTS,
MOST NOTABLY THE WHITEBOARD AND
R.A.F. KABBALIST ACADEMY THAT
WAS PARTNERED WITH THE OFFICE
OF DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND
INCLUSION.
THERE WILL BE VIDEOS AVAILABLE
ON THE THE CONFERENCE WEBSITE
SOON AND IN YOUR PACKET IS
JINNIES HAS BEEN VERY KIND TO
PROVIDE THE NOVEMBER MEETING
MINUTES AND THERE ARE LINKS FOR
ALL THE THINGS THAT I&apos;M GOING
TO MENTION SO THAT YOU CAN GO
THERE DIRECTLY YOURSELVES
.
THE OTHER THING WE DISCUSSED
WAS THE NEW BOCKER AWARD WHICH
HAPPENED AT THE BEGINNING
OF NOVEMBER.
THE AWARD WINNER WAS JOSKE LA
AND YOU CAN READ ALL ABOUT HER
AND HER WORK AND THE DISABILITY
COMMUNITY ON THE WEBSITE AS
WELL.
THERE IS A LINK AND THEY HAVE
ALSO DECIDED TO START LOOKING
FOR A NEW BACKER OF WORDS EARLY
WHILE IT&apos;S FRESH ON EVERYBODY&apos;S
MIND USUALLY CALL OUTS FOR THE
NEW BAKHTAWAR DON&apos;T TYPICALLY
GO OUT UNTIL SPRING OR EARLY
SUMMER BUT THEY&apos;VE DECIDED TO
START THE KICK OFF NOW.
SO IF YOU HAVE SOMEBODY FRESH
IN MIND AFTER BEING INSPIRED BY
LOOKING AT WHO OUR CURRENT
AMBACHER AWARD WINNER AS WELL
AS ALL THE HONORABLE MENTIONS
ARE YOU THINK HEY, I KNOW ABOUT
SOMEBODY YOU DON&apos;T HAVE TO HOLD
ON TO THAT YOU CAN GO RIGHT TO
THE NOMINATING WEBSITE AND
NOMINATE THAT PERSON NOW
FINALLY THE FINAL DISCUSSION
WAS CENTERED AROUND OUR CURRENT
CFTC MEETINGS PRIOR TO THE
PANDEMIC WE WERE ONE OF THE FEW
GROUPS THAT ACTUALLY HAD HYBRID
MEETINGS THAT WE WE WERE ABLE
TO ACCOMPLISH AND SO THE
DISCUSSION WAS DO WE GO BACK TO
HYBRID MEETINGS OR DO WE
CONTINUE TO REMAIN ON ZOOME AND
SO THERE IS A LOT OF DISCUSSION
BUT THERE WERE NO DECISIONS
MADE AND OUR NEXT MEETING WILL
BE DECEMBER.
ONE MOMENT PLEASE.
&gt;&gt; IT WILL BE SORRY TUESDAY
DECEMBER 13TH AT TWELVE O&apos;CLOCK
VIAS THANK YOU EVERYONE
CAREFULLY NOT JUST ONE QUICK
QUESTION FOR YOU FOR THE FOR
THE VIEWERS IN TERMS OF THE NEW
BOCCA AWARD DO THEY HAVE TO BE
IS IT SOMETHING WHERE THEY HAVE
TO BE A U OF M STUDENT IN ORDER
TO RECEIVE THAT AWARD?
I BELIEVE I DON&apos;T WANT TO
SWEAR.
I JUST WANT TO BE A STUDENT.
WE CAN BE A STUDENT.
IT COULD BE A FACULTY MEMBER,
SOMEBODY WHO WORKS YOU KNOW, AS
A STAFF, THAT SORT OF THING.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF IT&apos;S OPEN TO
THE BROADER COMMUNITY.
I THINK THEY HAVE TO HAVE SOME
SORT OF TIE TO THE UNIVERSITY
BUT I DON&apos;T WANT TO SAY THAT
FOR SURE IF THEY WANT MORE
DETAILED INFORMATION ABOUT WHO
IS ELIGIBLE FOR THE NEW AWARD,
THAT INFORMATION WILL BE ON THE
WEBSITE THAT I SEE RACHEL HAS
HER HAND SO MAYBE SHE HAS AN
ANSWER I BELIEVE THEY ALSO
COUNT ALUMS IN THAT.
SO IF YOU&apos;RE AN ALUM OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, EVEN IF
YOU DON&apos;T WORK THERE NOW, YOU
WOULD COUNT AS SOMEONE WHO
COULD BE NOMINATED FOR THE NEW
BOCKER AWARD.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
I THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL, DEFINITELY APPRECIATE ALL
OF THE EFFORTS THERE AND AGAIN,
JUST POINTING IT OUT TO THAT
THERE IS A VACANCY THAT WE
WOULD LIKE TO FILL WITH THE TWO
OF THEM COUNSEL FOR DISABILITY
CONCERNS.
I WILL TOUCH MORE ON THAT
DURING THE CHAIR REPORT NEXT.
WE HAVE THE CITY PERSONNEL
REPORT WITH DENISE AFTERNOON
PERSONNEL THE CITY BANABA IS
WELCOMING AARON BLAMIRE PUBLIC
WORKS TECHNICIAN TREVOR BRIDON
ENGINEER AARON TRANSPORTATION
PROGRAM MANAGER TREVOR KALB AND
CURTIS POLICE OFFICER CHARLENE
GLYNN, FIFTEENTH DISTRICT COURT
CLERK SHARON TO GLOSTER
SUSTAINABILITY INNOVATION
MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT SCOTT
HANKEN WATER TREATMENT SERVICE
WATER UTILITY TECHNICIAN KEITH
COOPERMAN PARKS AND RECREATION
COMMUNITY SERVICE TECHNICIAN
PARKS AND PUBLIC SPACE MANAGER
CHELSEA CLOO COBB HUMAN
RESOURCES COMPENSATION
SUPERVISOR AND LARGE
ENGINEERING CIVIL ENGINEERING
KATHLEEN MAYEUX BUILDING AND
RENTAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATIVE
ASSISTANT MORGAN PARKER POLICE
SERVICE SPECIALIST CADET LOGAN
PACTEL POLICE SERVICE
SPECIALIST CADET MARTHA RAQA
WATER TREATMENT SERVICES WATER
UTILITY TECHNICIAN GRIGORIS
GRANGER BUILDING AND RENTAL
SERVICES DEVELOPMENT SERVICES
INSPECTOR DAVID THOMPSON
ACCOUNTING SERVICES ACCOUNTING
KATHLEEN TRILLA POLICE
MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT RANDON
WORK POLICE OFFICER A
RETIREMENT FAREWELL TO LORD
HEAL FIFTEENTH DISTRICT COURT
RECORDS SPECIAL COORDINATOR.
&gt;&gt; I SAID WOW A LOT OF NEW
STAFF COMING IN SO WELCOME TO
ALL OF THOSE AND THOSE NEW
CADETS AND ALL THE NEW PEOPLE
WITH WATER TREATMENT AND ALL
OF THOSE DIFFERENT POSITIONS.
WELCOME TO THEM AND TO THE ONE
RETIREE CONGRATULATIONS.
&gt;&gt; WHAT A CONGRATULATION.
ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU.
THANK.
ALL RIGHT.
IN THE CHAIR REPORT&apos;S THAT IS
THE SECTION OF THE MEETING THAT
WE&apos;RE AT AT THIS POINT.
JUST WANTED TO POINT OUT A FEW
THINGS.
FIRST ONE BEING AGAIN THAT
WE&apos;RE WE&apos;RE LOOKING TO SET UP
AND FINALIZE THAT SPOT FOR THE
U OF M COUNSEL FOR DISABILITY
CONCERNS.
AS YOU KNOW OUR WONDERFUL
COMMISSIONER KATHLEEN SHE&apos;LL
CONTINUE TO BE A COMMISSIONER
BUT WITH SO MUCH ON HER PLATE
THAT SHE DOES FOR OUR
COMMUNITY, WE JUST NEED TO HAVE
SOMEONE ELSE IN PLACE FOR THAT.
SO JUST ANNOUNCING IT HERE FOR
ALL OF YOU IF INTEREST IN BEING
THE YOU OF COUNSEL FOR THE
STUDY CONCERNS LIAISON FOR THE
COMMISSION ON DISABILITY
ISSUES, PLEASE FEEL FREE TO
REACH OUT TO MYSELF AND OR
DENISE SO THAT WE CAN CONNECT
YOU WITH KATHLEEN TO KIND
OF KNOW WHAT THE PROCESSES AND
THE NEXT STEPS ON THAT NEXT THE
GAO REPORT I JUST WANTED TO
BRING UP THAT THERE&apos;S A VERY
INTERESTING CONFERENCE I FOUND
OUT ABOUT NOW NOT SURE I KNOW
IT&apos;S GOING TO BE OFFERED IN
PERSON THIS YEAR AND ALSO
VIRTUALLY BUT I WAS NOT SURE,
YOU KNOW, WHETHER IT&apos;S
SOMETHING THAT ANY OF YOU WOULD
WANT TO ATTEND.
BUT I TELL YOU WHAT IT&apos;S THE
DISABILITY POLICY SEMINAR AND
THAT&apos;S GOING TO BE MARCH 20TH
THROUGH TWENTY SECOND AND
THAT&apos;S GOING TO BE HELD AT THE
RENAISSANCE DOWNTOWN HOTEL IN
THE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON AND
VERY, VERY INTERESTING SEMINAR
.
VERY EXCITING.
AND YOU JUST WANTED TO BRING
THAT TO YOUR ATTENTION THAT
THERE&apos;S A LOT OF GREAT
DISABILITY EVENTS THAT GO ON
NOT JUST IN OUR CITY AND THE
SURROUNDING AREAS BUT ALL
AROUND THE COUNTRY.
SO I&apos;LL BE SENDING SOME MORE
INFORMATION ON THAT JUST TO
CLUE YOU GUYS IN AND KEEP
INFORMED GOING FORWARD.
OTHER THAN THAT, THAT IS ALL
THAT I HAVE RIGHT NOW FOR THE
CHAIR REPORT.
ALL RIGHT.
NOW SEE WHERE I AM.
&gt;&gt; OK, SO NEXT WE&apos;RE MOVING ON
TO OLD BUSINESS.
DIDN&apos;T KNOW IF THERE IS
ANYTHING UNDER OLD BUSINESS FOR
RIGHT NOW IT DOESN&apos;T LOOK LIKE
THERE IS.
SO WITH THAT I&apos;LL MOVE TO NEW
BUSINESS UNDER THERE WE HAVE
DISCUSSION ON THE NEIGHBORHOOD
CROSSWALK DESIGN.
SO IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE ON THE
COMMISSION THAT WANTS TO TOUCH
ON THAT A LITTLE BIT MORE?
&gt;&gt; YEAH, THIS IS ALEX I THINK
LARRY AND I CAN TALK ABOUT THAT
A LITTLE MORE DETAIL PUTTING ON
MY MY CENTER FOR INDEPENDENT
LIVING HAT FOR A MOMENT A
COUPLE OF WEEKS TO GO.
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG&apos;S REACHED
OUT TO ME WITH SOME QUESTIONS
REGARDING A NEWLY INSTALLED
CURB AT AN INTERSECTION AT
HARBORVIEW AND WESLEY.
AND IF I&apos;M ABLE TO SHARE MY
SCREEN I WILL BRING UP THE
PICTURES AND SOME QUESTIONS IF
THERE WAS ANY CONCERNS THAT I
HAD WITH HOW THEY WERE
INSTALLED AND IF THERE&apos;S
ANYTHING THAT SHOULD BE
CONSIDERED WANTING TO MAKE SURE
THAT THEY&apos;RE COMPLIANT WITH ADA
BUT ALSO IF IF THEY ARE
COMPLYING WITH ADA, ARE THEY
ALSO FOR BEST PRACTICE BECAUSE
AS WE ALL KNOW, JUST BECAUSE
SOMETHING IS COMPLIANT WITH THE
ADA DOES NOT MEAN THAT IT&apos;S
ACCESSIBLE OR AS ACCESSIBLE AS
IT COULD OR SHOULD BE.
SO JUST TRY TO DESCRIBE THESE
PICTURES AS BEST AS I CAN AND
TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT MY
CONCERN AND WHY I WANTED TO
BRING IT TO THIS GROUP TO TALK
ABOUT SOME MORE AT OUR REVIEW.
AND LESLIE, THEY HAVE INSTALLED
THE KIND OF THESE CURVED CURB
CUTS AT AT THE INTERSECTION.
MY CONCERN BEING ESPECIALLY FOR
INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE BLIND OR
INDIVIDUALS WITH LOW VISION IS
THAT I AM CONCERNED THAT THE
CURB CUTS THEMSELVES DO NOT
PROVIDE A LOT OF DO NOT PROVIDE
ENOUGH INFORMATION TO TELL YOU
THAT THE INTERSECTION IS
DIRECTLY ACROSS THE STREET.
I&apos;M CONCERNED THAT INDIVIDUALS
COULD BE LED TO THINK THAT WHEN
THEY&apos;RE GOING OVER THE TACTILE
BUMPS THAT THEY NEED TO CHANGE
DIRECTION AND THAT WOULD PUT
THEM RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE
OF THAT INTERSECTION.
I DID REACH OUT TO SOME FOLKS
THAT I KNOW AT ADA, MICHIGAN.
THEY TOLD ME THAT IT WAS
COMPLIANT WITH ADA BUT A BEST
PRACTICE WOULD BE FOR SOMETHING
TO HAVE KIND OF A MORE
STRUCTURE TO IT IN TERMS OF ITS
LEADING YOU STRAIGHT FORWARD
VERSUS HAVING SOME OF THIS
ADDITIONAL TURN HERE.
I THINK THE SECOND PICTURE HERE
IS JUST
MUCH CLOSER, CLOSER
CLOSE UP OF IT AS YOU&apos;LL SEE
WITH A CURVE THEY KIND OF TOOK
TO TACTILE PADS OR THREE
TACTILE PADS AND KIND
OF SMUSHED THEM ALL TOGETHER TO
MAKE THEM FIT AND THEN AS YOU
SEE WITH LOOKING OUTWARDS WELL
SOME OF THOSE TACTILE PADS
AGAIN ARE LEADING TO THE
INTERSECTION LIKE THERE&apos;S ONE
OTHER PICTURE DOESN&apos;T SHOW A
WHOLE LOT MORE INFORMATION.
THIS IS JUST TAKEN FROM ACROSS
THE ROAD.
SO I WANTED TO SHARE THIS WITH
THE COMMISSION.
I THOUGHT THAT WHILE THE CIO
CAN DEFINITELY RESPOND AND
EXPRESS THEIR CONCERNS, THIS
SEEMED LIKE A GOOD TOPIC TO
SHARE WITH THE COMMISSION AND
POSSIBLY IF FOLKS ARE IN
AGREEMENT WE COULD MAYBE WE
COULD CRAFT A RESOLUTION OR
CRAFT A STATEMENT TO SHARE BACK
WITH CITY COUNCIL ASKING THEM
TO LOOK AT IN ADDITION TO
MAKING SURE THAT THINGS ARE ADA
COMPLIANT REMAIN LEGAL AND
WITHIN THE LAW THAT THEY ALSO
LOOK AT BEST PRACTICES WHEN
THEY ARE INSTALLING THINGS LIKE
CURB CUTS, DOING OTHER
CONSTRUCTION WORK THAT IS
RELATED TO THE SALARY IS
RAISING HIS HANDS.
SO I WILL START TALKING FOR A
MOMENT AND LET HIM PUT HIS TWO
SONS AND YEAH I I AGREE WITH
THAT BECAUSE A LOT OF THOSE
CODE CUTS WHEN THEY&apos;RE SET OUT
THERE WE AT LEAST HAVE PEOPLE
WITH VISIBLE ISSUES.
WE WE LINE UP WITH THE CURVE.
WE CROSS AND IF THE KIDS AREN&apos;T
LINED UP OR WE START FROM THE
WRONG PLACE, WE&apos;LL END UP
EITHER IN THE MIDDLE OF A
STREET OR WHATEVER THIS THIS
CASE AND ALEX IS TALKING ABOUT
HAS NO TRAFFIC AND DOESN&apos;T
ALWAYS APPEAR TO HAVE TRAFFIC
THE LINE UP AGAINST.
SO I THINK THAT I AGREE WITH
THE IF WE CAN GET A RESOLUTION
OR TALK TO AND MAYBE MAYBE TALK
TO ONE OF THE COUNCIL PEOPLE OR
GET OUR NEW COUNCIL LIAISON AND
NEED WE CAN PUT A RESOLUTION TO
THE USE NOT ONLY ADR BUT BEST
PRACTICES AND BE ABLE TO PUT
OUR CONCERNS IN FOR THAT
WHEREAS THE OTHER COMMENT I&apos;LL
MAKE IS JUST A FUN ONE.
DOGS COULD ACTUALLY DO THAT
CROOKED PURCHASING BUT NOT ALL
OF US HAVE THOSE.
SO WHEN I AT HOW WE CAN DO
THOSE CRITICAL THINGS WE COULD
GO OUT ROUNDABOUTS AND
EVERYTHING BUT NOW THAT I DON&apos;T
HAVE HER I SEE CROSSING OVER
THERE AND GETTING LOST IN THE
INTERSECTION TRYING TO FIND THE
OTHER SIDE WE ENDED UP IN THE
WRONG PLACE ABOUT EIGHTY
PERCENT OF THE TIME.
THANK YOU FOR THAT AND I THINK
GOOD FOR HENDRY&apos;S.
BUT JUST TO ADD REAL QUICK,
LARRY HAD MENTIONED TO ME A
PIECE THAT I THOUGHT WAS REALLY
IMPORTANT WAS HE FOR EXAMPLE
USES A LOT OF SOUND CUES,
TRAFFIC CUES SO THAT WORKS OR
THAT COULD WORK IN ASSIST
SYSTEM IF HE&apos;S IN A HIGHLY
TRAFFICKED AREA LET&apos;S SAY ON
WASHTENAW OR DOWNTOWN ON MAIN
STREET.
BUT THIS ISN&apos;T A RESIDENTIAL
AREA WHERE WE&apos;RE PROBABLY NOT
HAVING CONSISTENT TRAFFIC ON A
REGULAR BASIS TO TO ASSIST WITH
PROVIDING THAT ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION.
SO THOSE THOSE CUES ARE NOT
THERE IN THIS IN THIS INSTANCE
?
&gt;&gt; WELL, THAT&apos;S CORRECT.
YOU DON&apos;T HAVE ANYTHING TO LINE
UP AGAINST YOU DON&apos;T HAVE A
STREAM OF TRAFFIC ON ONE SIDE
AND THE SOME MIGHT HAVE TO WAIT
A FEW MINUTES OR SOMETHING.
THEY&apos;RE COMING IN LINE UP TO
THAT CRACK.
YEAH, I JUST WANTED TO TO MAKE
A QUICK COMMENT.
FIRST OF ALL, I COMPLETELY
AGREE.
ALEX AND LARRY, THANK YOU FOR
BRINGING US TO THE COMMISSION&apos;S
ATTENTION.
I THINK YOU KNOW, YOU&apos;RE
EXACTLY RIGHT.
THOSE NOTIFICATIONS NEED TO BE
THERE WITHIN THAT PROJECT.
AND YOU KNOW, I GUESS THE REAL
QUESTION THAT I HAVE GOING
FORWARD IS, YOU KNOW, WHEN
THESE ARE PRESENTED, WHY ARE WE
NOT NECESSARILY INFORMED?
AND SO, YOU KNOW, ALL KIND
OF ALL KIND OF FIND OUT WHAT
THE BEST CONNECTION WOULD BE IN
TERMS OF OK, WELL YOU GUYS ARE
DOING SOME CONSTRUCTION ON CURB
CUTS OR CURBS SO HEY, DO YOU
WANT TO PRESENT THAT
CONSTRUCTION TO THE COMMISSION
BEFORE THAT WORK BEGINS OR KIND
OF FINDING OUT WHO THE CONTACT
POINT IS FOR THOSE SPECIFIC
PROJECTS I THINK WOULD BE
HELPFUL GOING FORWARD BECAUSE I
FEEL LIKE WELL I THINK RATHER
THAN TYPICALLY THIS JUST TENDS
TO HAPPEN.
RIGHT?
THE PROJECT IS ALREADY DONE AND
THEN WE NOTICE THESE THINGS AND
THEN WE&apos;RE SORT OF GOING BACK
TALKING TO THE CITY GOING WELL
YOU&apos;VE DONE THIS WORK BUT YOU
HAVE TO GO BACK AND DO THESE
ADDITIONAL STEPS WHEREAS IF WE
WERE KIND OF CONSULTING IN THE
BEGINNING OF THAT PARTICULAR
PROJECT THAT COULD HAVE BEEN
AVOIDED IN MY OPINION MAYBE
THAT NECESSARILY SHOULD BE ABLE
TO DO BE A CONNECTION TO A CITY
AND I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T KNOW HOW
THAT&apos;S GOING TO WORK EXACTLY.
WE MAYBE THAT&apos;S WHAT THE WORK
WILL HAVE TO DO IS WHEN WE GET
ONE IS PROPORTIONALITY OF THE
CONCERNS TO US TO TO TALK ABOUT
AND TALK ABOUT WITH THEM.
BUT RIGHT NOW YOU&apos;RE RIGHT,
THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S NO REAL PLACE
TO GO AND I DO TEND TO BE ONE
OF THE LAST ONES.
WELL, AND I&apos;M I&apos;M OPTIMISTIC
VICE CHAIRMAN THAT THAT&apos;LL
THAT&apos;LL CONTINUE TO CHANGE.
I MEAN WITH THE GREAT
COMMISSIONERS THAT WE HAVE HERE
DOING THE WORK AND ALL THE
GREAT PEOPLE THAT WE HAVE ON
THE FOREFRONT OF OF WHAT WHAT&apos;S
GOING ON ESPECIALLY AGAIN WITH
OUR NEW LIAISON COMING IN.
I THINK THERE&apos;S A THERE&apos;S A LOT
OF GOOD COMING BUT I DO AGREE
WITH YOU I DID SEE A COUPLE
OF HANDS RAISED SO I JUST
WANTED TO GET TO THOSE TO BE
EFFICIENT ON TIME HERE.
SO MATTHEW, YOU HAD YOUR
HENDRY&apos;S.
YEAH, I THINK LARRY ALLUDED TO
THIS.
IS THIS AN AREA WHERE LAURA
ORDA COULD PLAY A ROLE SO THAT
WE&apos;RE NOT ALWAYS THE LAST TO
KNOW THIS COULD HAVE BEEN
AVOIDED IN A VERY EFFICIENT WAY
HAD WE SIMPLY BEEN CONSULTED
AND AGAIN, THIS IS BECAUSE
LAURA ORDOS WITH WITH US RIGHT
NOW THAT WAS MY QUESTION.
YEAH, THAT&apos;S A GREAT QUESTION.
AM ABLE TO CAN I REVERT BACK TO
BORAT?
DO YOU MIND?
&gt;&gt; I DO FEEL COMFORTABLE GIVING
A STATEMENT ON THAT.
SO RIGHT NOW MY BEST STATEMENT
IS I DON&apos;T KNOW I DEFINITELY
WILL ASK AROUND AND ABOUT AND
GET BACK WITH SEC LET YOU I
KNOW ONE HUNDRED PERCENT THAT&apos;S
WHAT THE A PERSON WOULD BE
DOING BEING IN THE MEETINGS AND
ADVOCATING AND THINGS LIKE THAT
WITH INPUT FROM YOU IN THE
COMMUNITY.
SO IS IT IN THE SCOPE OF MY
AREA.
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY.
TO FIND OUT WHAT&apos;S GOING ON AND
WHAT&apos;S HAPPENING AND HOW WE CAN
ADDRESS BEST PRACTICES
EQUITABLY.
THEY&apos;RE JUST FOLLOWING UP.
I THINK ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
EMERGED FROM THE CONFERENCE
THAT KATHLEEN WAS SPEAKING
ABOUT IS WE NEED TO BE MOVING
BEYOND COMPLIANCE.
WE NEED TO BE IN THE BEST
PRACTICES ZONE.
AND SO I&apos;M REALLY GRATEFUL FOR
ALEX FOR A LEARNING US TO THIS.
THIS MIGHT BE COMPLIANT BUT
THIS IS NOT BUT THIS IS NOT
BEST PRACTICES.
SO I THINK THERE NEEDS TO BE
SOME REMINDER I&apos;M LOOKING
FORWARD TO SOME FURTHER LIAISON
WITH CITY COUNCIL HOPEFULLY AS
ACTIVE AS OUR LAST LIAISON.
BUT THIS TO ME IS A VERY
IMPORTANT ISSUE MOVING BEYOND
COMPLIANCE.
THANK AND THANK YOU MATTHEW.
&gt;&gt; ANY ANY OTHER COMMENTS OR
QUESTIONS ON WHAT ALEX HAS
BROUGHT ABOUT OR WHAT THE
RESPONSE FROM LAURA
GO AHEAD.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I GUESS SO.
I GUESS MY QUESTION IS, ZACH,
ARE DNIESTER I&apos;M NOT SURE WHO
OR MAYBE I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE
THIS FORWARD AND I DON&apos;T WANT
IT TO SIT INTO DECEMBER OR
JANUARY OR ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
I DID NOT HAVE A FORMAL
RESOLUTION OF ANY KIND WITH ALL
OF THE THE WHEREASES AND ALL
OF THAT STUFF PUT TOGETHER.
BUT IS IT WOULD IT BE
SUFFICIENT FOR US TO TO VOTE
AND SAY THAT WE ARE GOING TO
SUBMIT A STATEMENT TO CITY
COUNCIL EXPRESSING OUR CONCERNS
,ASKING THEM TO CONNECT WITH
CITY STAFF FOR ADDITIONAL
CONVERSATIONS AND HOPEFULLY
SOLUTION?
IS THAT SUFFICIENT OR DO WE
NEED SOMETHING IN WRITING TO
VOTE ON ET CETERA?
ETC.?
YOU KNOW, THAT&apos;S A GREAT
QUESTION.
I MEAN, YOU KNOW, I GUESS TO
ANSWER YOUR QUESTION, ALEX, YOU
KNOW, I&apos;M I&apos;M SURPRISED YOU&apos;RE
SAYING THAT WE CAN WE CAN, YOU
KNOW, VOTE ON TAKING ACTION ON
THIS AND THEN AND THEN AT THE
NEXT MEETING IF WE HAVE
SOMETHING DRAFTED, WHETHER IT&apos;S
A DRAFT OF A RESOLUTION OR WHAT
NEEDS TO BE ADDED WITHIN THE
PROJECT OR THEN WE CAN GO ABOUT
PUTTING THAT FORTH, I THINK TO
THE APPROPRIATE PARTIES.
BUT I THINK AT THIS POINT, YOU
KNOW, I WOULD HAVE NO PROBLEM
WITH, YOU KNOW, JUST VOTING YOU
KNOW, DRAFTING A RESOLUTION BUT
ALSO FIGURING OUT WHILE WE&apos;RE
ON HERE RIGHT NOW, YOU KNOW,
WHO WANTS TO TAKE THAT ON AND
WANTS TO TAKE THAT
RESPONSIBILITY ON IN
THAT AND
WHO WANTS TO SET UP A TIME TO
MEET AND AND GET THAT DRAFTED
BY I HAVE NO PROBLEM TAKING
THAT ON.
I SIMPLY DID NOT WANT TO WANT
TO GO THROUGH THE MOTIONS
OF TRYING TO PUT SOMETHING
TOGETHER REALLY QUICK AND THEN
HAVING IT NOT BE THE RIGHT
PROCESS.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT WAS MY BIGGEST
CONCERN AND THE MOTION BE AS
SIMPLE AS THE COMMISSION MOVES
THAT THIS BE ADDRESSED
IMMEDIATELY.
THIS IS COMPLIANT BUT NOW BEST
PRACTICES.
HERE&apos;S THE EXAMPLE.
HERE&apos;S THE PICTURES.
WE VOTE ON IT.
I MEAN I&apos;M I&apos;M MOVING NOW IF
THAT IS APPROPRIATE, I WOULD
LIKE TO MOVE THAT THAT BE DONE
OBJECT.
NO, I MEAN I SECOND THAT ALL
I&apos;M HOLD ON.
YEAH ALL IN ALL BEHIND THE
MOTION GETS DONE.
I HAD MY HAND UP AND THIS IS
WHAT WE USUALLY DO.
WE&apos;RE USUALLY THAT LETS JUST
HAVE THE RIGHT IDEA WE USUALLY
VOTE TO DO SOMETHING AND TO WE
VOTE TO MOVE TO GET THIS DONE
WE&apos;LL PUT A RESOLUTION TOGETHER
AND GET IT THROUGH SO WE DON&apos;T
NEED TO NECESSARILY AFTER AFTER
WE AFTER WE DO AS SOON AS WE
GET THE RESOLUTION OUR
TEMPORARY RESOLUTION WE SAID NO
WE BRING IT TO THE COMMISSION
IF THERE&apos;S ANY AMENDMENTS,
CHANGES OR ANYTHING THE
COMMISSION WILL DO THAT RIGHT.
WE BRING IT TO IT AND THEN WE
SAID THAT WE SEND IT BACK SO WE
WE BRING IT WE PRESENTED WE GET
THAT WE PRESENT IT TO THE
COMMISSION AND THE COMMISSION
PROPOSAL.
IT&apos;S AT PRESENT IN THE CITY
COUNCIL.
&gt;&gt; I MEAN THE ISSUE IS THAT
THEY ARE PROBABLY IN YOUR WORDS
THEY NEVER MOVE TO RESOLVE THAT
THEY&apos;RE GOING TO PUT IN THIS
ACCESSIBLE CURB CUTS.
THEY JUST DID IT AND THEY DID
IT WRONG.
LIKE CAN&apos;T WE OBJECT WITH THE
QUICKNESS?
DO WE HAVE TO WAIT THREE MORE
MONTHS TO GET SOMETHING THROUGH
?
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M A LITTLE SURPRISED WE WE
CAN WE COULD DO THAT.
WE JUST GOT A VOTE TO TAKE OUT
OF THIS ISSUE A BIT TO PUT A
THIS RESOLUTION THROUGH AS SOON
AS WE CAN.
YEAH I I DEFINITELY AGREE WITH
THAT.
I THINK THAT WE NEED TO YOU
KNOW IN MY OPINION WE CAN TAKE
SOME ACTION.
&gt;&gt; ALEX, YOU HAVE A COMMENT.
YES.
I WAS JUST WONDERING DENISE,
WHEN ARE THE NEXT COUNCIL
MEETINGS?
ARE THERE ARE THERE COUNCIL
MEETINGS BETWEEN NOW AND THE
END OF THE CALENDAR YEAR?
&gt;&gt; YES, THERE IS.
&gt;&gt; THERE&apos;S A COUNCIL MEETING ON
THE TWENTY FIRST OF NOVEMBER.
CORRECT.
OK, THANK AND I&apos;LL WORK WITH
YOU WHATEVER YOU NEED TO.
YEAH ALEX AND YOU KNOW I JUST
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT THIS IS
A UNANIMOUS DECISION THAT WE AS
YOU KNOW TO TO MOVE THIS
FORWARD AND IF ALL IN FAVOR
OF THIS THEN ALEX I&apos;M HAPPY TO
HELP YOU AND I&apos;M HAPPY TO
REVIEW IT TOO IF YOU&apos;D LIKE AND
AND GET IT GET IT IN FRONT
OF THE COMMISSION.
WHEN IS OUR NEXT WELL, WE&apos;RE
NOT MEETING UNTIL ONE COMMITS
THE TWENTY FIRST OF DECEMBER.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
OK, SO WE SHOULD LET MATTHEW
COMPLETE WITH MOTION AND THEN
WE CAN DISCUSS IT OK I CUT HIM
OFF ON THE SET ABOUT THAT NANCY
.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S ALL RIGHT MATTHEW DO
YOUR LARRY I DEFER TO YOU ON
PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
I MOVE THAT THE DISABILITY
COMMISSION OBJECT TO THE
CURRENT CONSTRUCTION THAT
EXISTS AT THE INTERSECTION OF X
AND Y AND THAT THE DISABILITY
COMMISSION FINDS THAT IT IS NOT
ACCESSIBLE, FULLY ACCESSIBLE
AND THAT IT BE REMEDIATED
IMMEDIATELY AND IT MIGHT
PROVIDE FURTHER IF I CAN I&apos;D
FURTHER ADD TO THAT MOTION TO
THAT WE DO THAT WE SUBMIT A
RESOLUTION TO THE CITY COUNCIL
AND BEHALF OF CHANGING THAT AND
MAKING SURE THAT DOESN&apos;T HAPPEN
AGAIN.
OK, YES I WOULD THE MAIN POINT
HERE IS EFFECTIVE LAST MONTH
EVERY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
NEEDS TO BE VETTED BY THE
DISABILITY COMMISSION.
THIS CANNOT BE AN AFTERTHOUGHT.
THIS IS SO DISRESPECTFUL AND
IT&apos;S SO SYSTEMATIC AND IS SO
STRUCTURALLY INEQUITABLE.
AGREED.
OH WELL OK.
&gt;&gt; SO THERE&apos;S A MOVE AND THEN
LARRY, DID YOU SECOND YEAH I&apos;LL
CHECK IT SIR.
OK SO ALL IN FAVOR OF DRAFTING
A RESOLUTION FOR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD CROSSWALK DESIGN
PLEASE ON MUTE AND SAY YAY OR
NAY AY AY AY AY AY AY OK I SO
APPROVED AND LIKE I SAID ALEX,
YOU KNOW WHATEVER YOU HAVE
DRAFTED JUST LET ME KNOW AND I
CAN HELP YOUR VIEW THAT ANYBODY
ELSE WHO WOULD LIKE TO BE
INVOLVED ON THAT PROJECT ON THE
ORDER RESOLUTION DRAFT RATHER
LET US KNOW AND WE CAN WE CAN
GIVE YOU I&apos;M HAPPY TO
COLLABORATE ON THAT AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD LOVE TO WORK WITH
ALEX LARRY ON THE SAME HERE
PLEASE BE MY LIFE.
&gt;&gt; OK OK SO ALEX, YOU KNOW AS
SOON AS YOU KNOW WHATEVER YOU
NEED JUST SEND IT OUR WAY AND
LET ME KNOW I THINK IT IS ALEX
AGAIN I THINK THIS IS REALLY
IMPORTANT THAT YOU BROUGHT THIS
DID YOU JUST HAPPEN TO NOTICE
THIS BY CHANCE?
I MEAN ARE WE DEALING WITH
OTHER EXAMPLES OF THIS THAT
WE&apos;RE NOT AWARE OF AT THIS
MEETING?
LIKE HOW WHAT&apos;S THE SCOPE
OF THIS?
HOW WIDESPREAD IS THIS?
SO I DON&apos;T KNOW.
THIS WAS AGAIN THIS WAS TO ME
BY COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG&apos;S TO
GET SOME ADVICE WITH MY CIO
HEAD ON.
SO SHE KNEW OF THIS
INTERSECTION BEING DONE.
IT WAS DONE RECENTLY AND I&apos;M
I&apos;M SURE THERE PROBABLY ARE
OTHER ONES.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD NOT BE SURPRISED.
VICE CHAIRMAN POPULARIZES HAS
HIS OK, LARRY, QUITE A FEW
QUESTIONS.
IF I DID IT, WOULD YOU THINK
IT&apos;S APPROPRIATE IF I FIND THE
APPROPRIATE SETTING?
WELL, I WILL FIND THE
APPROPRIATE SECTION CONNECTION
TO THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION THAT THIS IS ONE
OF OUR CONCERNS BECAUSE THEY
THEY DO THIS COMMISSION DOES
WORK ON CROSSWALK AND THEY GIVE
US A CHANCE TOWARD THE END TO
EXPRESS OUR OUR FOR EACH
COMMISSION TO EXPRESS ANYTHING
THEY&apos;VE GOT.
AND IF YOU THINK IT&apos;S
APPROPRIATE I&apos;LL MENTION IT IN
THAT SECTION THAT WE&apos;RE HAVING
CONCERNS WITH HOW THE HOW
CROSSWALKS ARE BEING BUILT AND
THAT WE WANT TO GO AND THAT THE
ADA COORDINATED BUT ALSO THE
BEST PRACTICE.
I THINK THAT&apos;S A GREAT IDEA.
&gt;&gt; I THINK THE BEST POSSIBLE
SPOKESPERSON FOR THIS AND I
THINK IT&apos;S IMPORTANT THAT THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE, THE
TRANSPORTATION AND COMMISSION
MEETING IS TONIGHT BY THE WAY,
I DID MENTION THAT SO THANK YOU
FOR FOR LARRY.
THAT&apos;S GREAT.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL, GOOD PROGRESS, FOLKS.
IS THERE ANYTHING ELSE ON THE
DISCUSSION OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD
CROSSWALK DESIGN AT THIS TIME?
OK, NEXT WE HAVE OUR
COMMUNICATIONS AND JUST WANT TO
POINT OUT TO ALL COMMISSIONERS
THAT THE COMMISSION ON
DISABILITY ISSUES TWENTY TWENTY
THREE YEARLY MEETING CALENDAR
HAS BEEN RELEASED FOR REVIEW
DID NOT KNOW IF ANY OF YOU HAD
A CHANCE TO REVIEW THAT OR HAD
ANY CONFLICTS ON THOSE DATES OR
ARE WE ABLE TO JUST APPROVE
THESE MEETING DATES AS WRITTEN
?
&gt;&gt; I CAN PULL IT UP IF YOU
LIKE.
YES, THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
&gt;&gt; OK, I HAD A QUESTION SURE
HAD WE CONFIRMED FOR STAYING ON
ZOOME FOR NEXT OR IS THAT STILL
UP IN THE AIR?
&gt;&gt; I HAVEN&apos;T RECEIVED ANY
COMMUNICATION THAT THAT HAS
CHANGED THAT MY JOB THE FIRST
OF THE YEAR I&apos;M NOT SURE YET
BUT I KNOW THAT I WANTED TO SET
UP THE TIME AND DATE SO THAT
THE CLERK&apos;S OFFICE AND
REGISTRAR WOULD HAVE THEM FOR
TWENTY TWENTY THREE BUT I CAN
DEFINITELY CHECK INTO THAT.
I MEAN IF THE COMMISSION WOULD
LIKE TO SAY VIRTUAL THAT I CAN
DO THAT OR IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO
SWITCH IN PERSON AND MEET IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBERS THEN LET
ME KNOW AND I CAN BRING THAT TO
THEIR ATTENTION AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; YEAH I THINK IT&apos;S IMPORTANT
JUST TO PIGGYBACK OFF OF THAT I
THINK IT&apos;S IMPORTANT TO REALLY
KIND OF TAKE THE TEMPERATURE
OF THE COMMISSION AT THIS TIME
AND SEE, YOU KNOW, IF WE WERE
TO GO BACK ARE PEOPLE
COMFORTABLE WITH THAT OR ARE WE
COMFORTABLE?
WE&apos;RE STILL MEETING VIRTUALLY
I&apos;M HAVING DIFFICULTY SHARING I
HAVE SO MANY WINDOWS OPEN WHEN
YOU HAVE YOUR HAND UP.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I DO.
I JUST WANTED TO CHIME IN AND
SAY THAT FOR NOW AND I HAVE
SEEN
SOME HEAD BOBBING FROM
OTHER PEOPLE THAT I THINK ZOO
MEETINGS MAY BE BEST FOR US
CONSIDERING ALL THE DIFFERENT
VARIABLE VARIANTS THEY&apos;RE OUT
THERE ON AN COVID-19 WE DON&apos;T
KNOW WHAT&apos;S COMING AND PLUS I
THINK THAT WE HAVE HAD A MORE I
DON&apos;T KNOW I WON&apos;T SAY THAT BUT
I AGREE I THINK I WOULD LIKE
FOR MYSELF I PREFER TO STAY ON
FOR A LITTLE WHILE VIRTUAL OK.
&gt;&gt; SURE, NO PROBLEM.
ALEX, YOU HAVE TO I WOULD
PREFER TO STAY VIRTUAL AS WELL
AT LEAST FOR THE MONTH
OF DECEMBER JANUARY, FEBRUARY
AND MARCH AT THE VERY LEAST.
SO WE&apos;RE NOT COMPETING WITH
SNOWSTORMS AND BAD WEATHER IN
THE FUTURE.
IS THERE ANY REASON WHY WE
COULDN&apos;T DO SOMETHING AS A
HYBRID?
SO IF FOLKS WANTED TO BE IN THE
COUNCIL ROOM AND SOME FOLKS
WANTED TO MAYBE BE VIRTUAL
BECAUSE IT WORKED BETTER FOR
THEIR SCHEDULE OR
TRANSPORTATION OR WHAT HAVE YOU
THAT WE COULD DO IT THAT WAY OR
DO WE HAVE TO DO ALL ONE WAY OR
ALL THE OTHER SO FAR IT HAS
BEEN ONE WAY OR THE OTHER WHEN
IT COMES TO THE OTHER TWO
CONDITIONS THAT I SAW YOU CAN
HAVE HYBRID OR YOUR GUEST
SPEAKERS AND PUBLIC COMMENT BUT
IF THE COMMISSION IS IN PERSON
THEN YOUR ATTENDANCE WILL ONLY
COUNT IF YOU ARE IN PERSON EVEN
IF YOU ARE NOT THERE YOU CAN
CALL IN OR MAN BUT YOU WILL NOT
BE ACCOUNTED TOWARD ATTENDANCE
IF YOU CALL ME I COULD THANK
THAT DENISE BECAUSE I HAVE AN
OPEN MEETINGS ACT UPDATE ON
THAT ONE.
SHE WON ANOTHER BOARD AND IF
THERE IS A BOARD MEMBER OR A
COMMISSION MEMBER WHO HAS AN
ILLNESS THAT PREVENTS THEM FROM
ATTENDING THE MEETING IN
PERPETUITY, THERE IS A WAY FOR
THEM TO STILL BE A VOTING
MEMBER BY FILING PAPERWORK
STATING THAT THEY ARE NOT I
DON&apos;T KNOW I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT IT
ENCOMPASSES.
&gt;&gt; YOU HAVE TO FIND THAT OUT OK
THAT I BELONG TO WE HAVE ONE
OF OUR MEMBERS WHO ONLY ATTENDS
VIRTUALLY AND IS STILL ABLE TO
VOTE AND BE COUNTED BECAUSE
OF WHATEVER PAPERWORK SHE FILED
FOR THAT.
BUT SO THERE IS A THERE IS A
WAY TO DO THAT.
BUT IT CAN&apos;T BE OH I DON&apos;T WANT
TO ATTEND NEXT WEEK BUT I CAN I
CAN 10 NEXT MONTH.
&gt;&gt; YOU CAN&apos;T BE WISHY WASHY.
OK, I&apos;LL LOOK INTO THAT FOR
YOU.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;LL FOLLOW UP ON THAT
RACHEL AND THEN MATTHEW, YOU&apos;RE
ON MUTE RACHEL ALL RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; I APPRECIATE THE INFORMATION
,KATHLEEN AND I THINK THAT&apos;S
DEFINITELY SOMETHING I&apos;D LIKE
FOR US TO EXPLORE IN CASE WE DO
HAVE TO GO BACK IN PERSON
BECAUSE I THINK THIS HAS BEEN A
POSITIVE AND A LOT OF WAYS FOR
ACCESSIBILITY FOR PEOPLE WHO
MIGHT NOT HAVE BEEN ABLE TO
MAKE THE MEETINGS IN PERSON OR
MAY HAVE HAD, YOU KNOW,
PHYSICAL BARRIERS OR
TRANSPORTATION BARRIERS TO TO
BEING INVOLVED IF IT WAS AN
IN-PERSON THING.
&gt;&gt; SO I LIKE I LIKE THE IDEA
OF SEEING HOW WE CAN GO HYBRID
OR AT LEAST HAVE ADEQUATE AND
SUPPORTIVE ACCOMMODATION FOR
PEOPLE WHO NEED TO BE
PARTICIPATING.
&gt;&gt; I YEAH, I AGREE WITH YOU,
COMMISSIONER HAWKINS.
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY, MATTHEW.
YEAH, I&apos;M JUST IN A STATE THAT
SAME THING AND MORE EMPHATIC
TERMS THAT I THINK ZOOM IS AN
ACCESSIBILITY TOOL AND I THINK
WE CAN HAVE ACTUALLY A MORE
ROBUST DISCUSSION USING ZOOM.
SO I WOULD ADVOCATE FOR ZOOM IN
PERPETUITY.
OF COURSE IF I&apos;M OUTVOTED I&apos;LL
DEFER TO THE MAJORITY BUT I DO
THINK IT IS A CRUCIAL
ACCESSIBILITY TOOL THAT WE
OUGHT TO EMBRACE RATHER THAN
TRAIPSING THROUGH WHO KNOWS
WHAT TO SIT IN A ROOM TOGETHER
WHEN AS FAR AS I CAN TELL OUR
DISCUSSIONS HAVE BEEN EVERY BIT
AS ROBUST IF NOT MORE SO.
SO I WOULD ADVOCATE AS AN
ACCESSIBILITY TOOL THAT WE USE
THIS EXCLUSIVELY AND AGAIN IF
THERE&apos;S IF I&apos;M OUTVOTED ON THIS
SO BE WELL THUS FAR I HAVE SET
UP YOUR SCHEDULE AS YOU CAN SEE
FOR WAS DONE FOR THE ENTIRE
YEAR OF TWENTY TWENTY THREE ONE
IN MATTHEW I JUST WANT YOU TO
KNOW I&apos;M I&apos;M YOU KNOW I
PERSONALLY I&apos;M IN SUPPORT
OF THE VIRTUAL AS WELL
ESPECIALLY AS ALEX MENTIONED
DURING THE WINTER MONTHS
BECAUSE IT CAN BE VERY
DIFFICULT TO GET TO AND FRO SO
YEAH I&apos;M IN FULL SUPPORT
OF WHAT ALL OF YOU HAVE
MENTIONED.
ABSOLUTELY.
ANYBODY HAVE ANY CONFLICTS WITH
THE DATES LISTED AT THIS TIME?
&gt;&gt; MY HAND RAISED OH I&apos;M SO NO
I DON&apos;T SEE IT.
I&apos;M SORRY COMMISSIONER KEELER.
OH I&apos;VE GOT TO GET READY FOR I
ACTUALLY I&apos;VE GOING TO BE IN
THE MINORITY I DON&apos;T MIND
HYBRIDS AND I DO LIKE THE IDEA
OF NOT HAVING
DID WE LOSE HIM,
LARRY, I THINK WE LOST HIM.
OK, WELL WE&apos;LL LOOK FOR HIM IF
HE COMES BACK IN.
YOU&apos;RE SURE AND I DO APOLOGIZE
.
I JUST WANT TO BE COGNIZANT
OF ALL OF OUR TIME AND ALL
OF THAT.
SO WITH THAT BEING SAID, FOLKS,
IF THERE&apos;S ANY YOU KNOW, IF
THERE&apos;S ANY CONFLICTS OF THE
DATES LISTED, PLEASE LET US
KNOW.
BUT I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE TO
APPROVE THE TWENTY TWENTY THREE
MEETING DATES SO I&apos;LL I&apos;LL MOVE
TO APPROVE IS THERE A SECOND.
A SECOND.
THIS IS KATHLEEN OK THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; OK SO ALL IN FAVOR
OF APPROVING THE MEETING
CALENDAR FOR TWENTY TWENTY
THREE AND KEEPING US VIRTUAL
FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE I I
OK I THANK YOU VERY MUCH THAT
IS APPROVED ALL RIGHT SO YEAH
WITH THAT I DON&apos;T HAVE ANYTHING
ELSE IT IS FIVE NINETEEN I AM I
MOVE TO JOURNO&apos;S EVERYONE OK
WITH ADJOURNING AT FIVE
NINETEEN I DO WANT TO LEARN TO
GET HIS SAY OH OF COURSE YOU
WANT TO HEAR FROM LARRY.
&gt;&gt; OH NO COUNTERPOINT OK I
SHAKILA YEAH I&apos;M I&apos;M HERE IT&apos;S
LIKE I GET SOMETHING I&apos;M I&apos;M
USING UP HERE I&apos;M USING A PAIR
OF HEADPHONES WHICH IS MY
SPEAKER AT MY HEARING ABILITY
AND I ACTUALLY HIT THE BUTTON
THAT LETS ME AND I WENT OUT BUT
I WAS SAYING THAT I&apos;M LOOKING
FORWARD.
I WAS SAYING I&apos;M LOOKING TO
TAKE THOSE SAYING THAT I&apos;M
LOOKING FORWARD TO EVENTUALLY
HAVING THESE MEETINGS AT LEAST
A HYBRID MEETING BECAUSE AT
LEAST ME I I THINK WE LOSE SOME
OF THE I DON&apos;T KNOW HOW TO PUT
IT.
WE LOSE SOME OF THE
INTERPERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS IN
MEETINGS THE THE ADVANTAGE THAT
PRESENTS GIVES AND I ALSO THINK
I COULD BE STRANGE AND I KNOW
I&apos;M GOING TO BE OUTVOTED BUT I
THINK THAT WHEN A LOT OF THE
PEOPLE ON THE COMMISSION ON
DISABILITY ISSUES ARE
OUTSTANDING FOLKS AND IF WE&apos;RE
SHOWING PEOPLE THAT WE CAN GET
TO AND ATTEND THOSE MEETINGS,
THAT&apos;S A PLUS FOR SOME PEOPLE
TO GET THEM OUT AND ATTENDING
THINGS.
&gt;&gt; BUT YOU KNOW, THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S
MY TAKE ON THAT.
IT&apos;S JUST JUST I KIND OF MISS
THE THE IN-PERSON MEETINGS.
THANK YOU, LARRY.
I MISS SEEING YOU BECAUSE ALL I
SEE IS THIS PHONE DOWN THAT&apos;S
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; AND THE OTHER THING I HAVE
TO DO EVERYTHING I HAVE IS JUST
A COMMENT.
ZACH AND IT&apos;S NOT DISTRICT
OF WASHINGTON YOU CAN SAY
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA DC
DISTRICT OUT YOU THERE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, LARRY.
YES.
&gt;&gt; THE DISTRICT OF RUSSIANS I
JUST THOUGHT THAT WAS FUNNY.
THAT IS INDEED SURE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;LL I KNEW MORE ABOUT THAT
TOMORROW.
ABSOLUTELY MOVING ON, IS THERE
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION AT THIS
POINT OR I WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A
MOVE TO ADJOURN OUR MEETING.
IT IS NOW OK LARRY YOU SECOND.
ALL RIGHT.
ALL IN FAVOR OF ADJOURNING OUR
MEETING AT FIVE TWENTY TWO P.M.
EASTERN STANDARD TIME I MY ALL
RIGHT.
WE ARE ADJOURNED EVERYONE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
&gt;&gt; EVERYONE HAVE A NICE HOLIDAY